yeah I think the number one question was
the first one that I listed basically
like why did you choose France and also
you know then you move to Taiwan no you
chose that place that you were going to
start raising right so what made you
decide on France and then Taiwan
[Music]
so I am sitting here with my best girl
Melissa this is packing night before
we're going off to Europe to see my
daughter
and I thought I'd make a quick video of
the gift hole the gifts I'm bringing
across the ocean to her now I did this
about two years ago you may recall I
made a video before I want to meet my
daughter in Germany of all the gifts
laid out on a on a couch I do this
partly because I think my daughter might
watch the video one day and kind of
vaguely remember like oh yeah right I
remember having that thing when I was a
kid I didn't realize that my father
taped that to me or that my father
brought that all the way from China one
trip it was going from Canada to Germany
and France and in this case we're going
from China to the south of France so
those are two two very different stories
the question of where we would give
birth was a huge pile of research we
worked against an amazingly long list of
options that we we researched primarily
through Google you know primarily with
internet I mean and no it's actually
significant also we did in some cases
rely on human opinions we were lied on
talking to and asking people's opinions
who seemed like they know what they're
talking about and that can be way more
misleading than Google but we considered
having my daughter born in Taiwan
Thailand you know various places in Asia
my wife's work or my work had connected
us to we considered United States and
Canada but obviously Canada even just
within Canada there'd be many options
and then within Europe and we looked at
actually a long list of obscure and
remote places Islands that are
controlled as French territory because
my ex-wife is a French citizen and some
of the islands that are controlled as as
US territory and so on and so that was
really a process that was a
brainstorming process really starting
from a blank sheet of paper and a lot of
the research was about how did the
hospital system work in the given place
how did the insurance system work but in
all these places you had to research one
what's gonna happen if it's a normal
healthy birth with no problems no
complications to what's gonna happen if
there are problems them because then
terms of health insurance money cost
even just where you're gonna stay right
like where are you gonna be living
if things go wrong and you know but yet
cost is certainly a factor and then
three how are we gonna live for the
immediate period of weeks and months
after the the child is born because we
were doing this as there was just two
people alone in the world no aunts and
uncles involved no parents involved her
parents not involved my parents not
involved and so on I figured you had
done plenty of research because you
research everything but you know it's
unfortunate that you went through all
that research and nevertheless had such
negative experience we fended up in a
situation I was unhappy with right but
you us to go to the second question is
why we have been why did we end up in
Taiwan after that I mean I got and
assembled all the furniture we moved in
we created this home to raise our
daughter and in Perpignan France we put
in all this work to get set up there and
just because the immigration office in
that city in France was garbage should I
say it was corrupt should I say it was
incompetent should I use other more
colorful words because of a couple bad
people in one government bureaucratic
office it was impossible for us to stay
there so that was a paperwork created
situation that were bad people in
positions of authority in one office in
the government in France and we did
formally complain anymore
highly-educated how literate people we
saw to what extent we couldn't fight the
system then it was very clear that
because these few people in this one
bureaucratic office in France were
terrible people when running a terrible
office said well either we have to exit
France completely and then re-enter
France and restart the immigration
process with new paperwork like pretend
we never arrived in France at all
pretended we didn't just give birth to a
baby in France start with new paperwork
in a different city in a different
province in France you could do that if
that was allowed that wouldn't be
breaking the law that's that's the law
you can restart with a new sheet of
paper or we leave France entirely we
give up on France as the plan if you've
been in one city in France where the
immigration process was incompetent
corrupts bad etc why would you think it
would be better elsewhere remember when
you have to move everything you own by
airplane and everything you only
includes a new
infant you own almost nothing because
you have the baby of the diapers of the
baby of all the things you need for the
baby I mean you know I didn't I didn't
have a own a single book you know what I
mean I lost everything I had my own you
know you don't even can't even bring
many adult clothes you're very limited
luggage allowance is devoted entirely to
the baby and the things that baby needs
first and foremost right so you know
we'd already gone through that in effect
going from Canada to Perpignan really
hard to create a home and nothing in
Perpignan you know rents rent an empty
apartment furnish it and in France it is
very hard to get the electricity and
light setup and phone it was a real you
but that was a big struggle in France
some countries even others know it is
what it is and then we were losing all
that and we were leaving like refugees
and the question is well if we're going
to leave like refugees do you want to
come back to France do this all over
again or do you want to give up on
France entirely there's really more than
one story that gets buried here a story
that's rather difficult to unearth you
might say for my entire adult life I did
not want to live in Canada if I was not
connected to First Nations languages
indigenous Canadian languages by the
same token that I wouldn't live in
Cambodia if I wasn't actively studying
and learning cambodian were some other
indigenous language of cambodia by the
same token whereby i didn't want to
leave in Laos country in Southeast Asia
if I wasn't learning lotion or studying
other indigenous minority languages in
Laos I did not want to be part of the
Canadian genocide and I lived outside of
Canada for many many years as an adult I
mean when I made the decision to become
a scholar of Buddhism when I made a
decision not to be working on First
Nations languages I went and lived in
Asia where there's a tradition and
history of those languages and I was
always really clear with my ex-wife you
know at the time when I was married or
at the time we work together you know if
I'm gonna live in Canada
that I'm gonna work on the indigenous
languages and the indigenous peoples
political struggles one way or another
whether that's through the Board of
Education or something else my point
being here
not all political struggles involve
waving flags in the streets you can have
really meaningful political struggles
that are at the Board of Education
you could have meaningful political
struggles that go on you know in the
back of a restaurant there were
different ways to struggle to make the
world a better place but in any case for
me there was first and foremost this
issue of being a white english-speaking
Canadian part of a genocidal colonial
history and regime and you know the
question I asked as I put it on this
YouTube channel is you know if not you
then who
so at that time terms who I was I was a
former scholar of Buddhism giving up on
Buddhist scholarship and moving back to
Canada me read to a cultural
anthropologist cultural anthropologists
who worked on indigenous minority
languages in Yan'an I had been working
on indigenous minority languages and
peoples in Laos Cambodia Yunnan not the
only thing I was doing not even the main
thing I was doing but one of my research
interests was in that field so okay the
two of us as a couple
me and my ex-wife moving back to Canada
if not you then who
it's fair to say not everyone can learn
Mohawk not everyone can learn a jib way
not everyone can learn you know in the
yo and whatever II want to say you could
list off designers not everyone can
learn in you it you know not everyone
but if not you then who when you look in
the mirror I mean if you're a
professional PhD in cultural
anthropology that's who my ex-wife is
you're coming back you're working on
indigenous peoples and minority
languages not okay if you're you know a
white vegan who cares about ecology and
history and politics and you've been
working on indigenous languages minority
languages issues and language education
issues in Southeast Asia when you come
back
to Canada I think the dotted line of
responsibility is set out for you you
know it's very clear now there were
other interesting positive things you
can do with your brain
I would not ridicule someone for wanting
to learn sign language to speak with you
know to death the thing is the Deaf are
not indigenous people of Canada the
primary political absurdity of 21st
century Canada is not reconciling the
relationship between the hearing and the
Deaf and especially if you live in
Saskatchewan Canada which is where we
were moving to max life
the primary political struggle very much
is reconciling the reality of the white
European colonial colonial settler
civilization with the indigenous people
and what happens next
so I think that was the correct judgment
at the time right so I mean the most
fundamental reason why my daughter does
not have a Canadian passport I've said
this to max wife more recently I said it
way back before we had a kid I said
during the birthing race in which I was
know if this doesn't work out if I can't
stay here and work on curry or a jib way
or mohawk if I'm not working on one of
the indigenous languages if I'm not
positively engaged with this political
problem one way or another
then I'm not staying here and my
daughter is not going to have a Canadian
passport so there's a very conscious and
intentional decision I made and still to
this day I am in a sense proud to say
that my daughter does not have a
Canadian passport my daughter the plan
was there for after the whole situation
fell apart in Saskatchewan after it
became impossible for me to continue
with Korean achievement as languages
because the decisions max wife made the
decision was that she would be raised
with French Chinese in English in that
order as their languages of scholarship
growing up in France I don't know babe
any any comment I mean how how
exhausting
was assembling this this
three-dimensional marble puzzle that is
true
but once you get the knack down once you
learn which pieces fit with which pieces
you wouldn't need the book but when
you're first doing it snapping together
the various slides and shoots so that's
it I'm going to see my daughter in
France and thus you guys will not see me
on YouTube for a little while Alexander
if you're watching this video in the
year 2025
maybe oh some vague memory of these toys
of the bicycle I sent you when you were
living in France that was living in
Canada it is what it is when I remember
my toys from my childhood but do I
remember who gave them to me No
[Music]